README.md, before:

# Family To-Do & Financial Snapshot

#### Video Demo: <Coming Soon>
#### Author: Rafael Santos  
#### GitHub: [SatoshiSantos](https://github.com/SatoshiSantos)  
#### edX Username: SatoshiSantos  
#### Location: Florida, USA  
#### Date Recorded: May 26, 2025

---

## 📌 Description

This desktop application, developed in Python with PyQt5, provides a secure and user-friendly interface for families or individuals to manage daily to-dos and financial information. It includes task tracking, financial entry logging, credit card monitoring, and CSV export functionality for record-keeping and analysis.

The application was created as the final project for CS50's Introduction to Programming with Python (CS50P), fulfilling all course requirements including top-level functions, unit testing, GUI design, and data persistence.

---

## 🚀 Features

### ✅ To-Do Management
- Add tasks with due date, status, notes, and categories
- Filter by status, due date, task name, or category
- Visual color indicators based on task status
- All data saved persistently to `data.json`

### 💵 Financial Snapshot
- Log income, expenses, or accounts
- Each entry has a label and amount
- Summarized by account and by owner

### 💳 Credit Card Tracker
- Input cardholder, card name, limit, balance, available credit, and due date
- Automatically calculates:
  - Usage % per card
  - Total credit usage across all cards
  - Total and per-user debt
- Input validation ensures clean data entry

---

## 🧪 Testing

The app includes three top-level utility functions:
- `format_currency(amount)`
- `calculate_credit_usage(balance, limit)`
- `validate_float(value)`

These are covered with unit tests using `pytest`. Tests are found in `test_project.py`.

Run tests with:
```bash
pytest test_project.py

Install requirements with:
```bash
pip install requirements.txt

Commit message:

Added .gitignore, updated README - added youtube link - black formate

README.md, after:

# Family To-Do & Financial Snapshot

#### Video Demo: [Youtube](https://youtu.be/742hhTo2rNs)
#### Author: Rafael Santos  
#### GitHub: [SatoshiSantos](https://github.com/SatoshiSantos)  
#### edX Username: SatoshiSantos  
#### Location: Florida, USA  
#### Date Recorded: May 28, 2025

---

## 📌 Description

This desktop application, developed in Python with PyQt5, provides a secure and user-friendly interface for families or individuals to manage daily to-dos and financial information. It includes task tracking, financial entry logging, credit card monitoring, and CSV export functionality for record-keeping and analysis.

The application was created as the final project for CS50's Introduction to Programming with Python (CS50P), fulfilling all course requirements including top-level functions, unit testing, GUI design, and data persistence.

---

## 🚀 Features

### ✅ To-Do Management
- Add tasks with due date, status, notes, and categories
- Filter by status, due date, task name, or category
- Visual color indicators based on task status
- All data saved persistently to `data.json`

### 💵 Financial Snapshot
- Log income, expenses, or accounts
- Each entry has a label and amount
- Summarized by account and by owner

### 💳 Credit Card Tracker
- Input cardholder, card name, limit, balance, available credit, and due date
- Automatically calculates:
  - Usage % per card
  - Total credit usage across all cards
  - Total and per-user debt
- Input validation ensures clean data entry

## Notes
"Could not load the Qt platform plugin 'xcb'"

is a common issue on Linux systems and code spaces (especially in cloud shells or headless environments) when running PyQt5 GUI apps, because the xcb platform plugin requires additional system libraries that are missing
---

## 🧪 Testing

The app includes three top-level utility functions:
- `format_currency(amount)`
- `calculate_credit_usage(balance, limit)`
- `validate_float(value)`

These are covered with unit tests using `pytest`. Tests are found in `test_project.py`.

Run tests with:
```bash
pytest test_project.py

Install requirements with:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
